hi everybody Don Campbell here and today
I want to show you how to verify a
wordpress site using google webmaster
tools so that google webmaster tools are
just an awesome resource for you know
making sure that your site looks good to
Google and it's one of the things that
you're going to want to do is verify
your site in the Google Webmaster Tools
you can do things like submit a sitemap
you know check for duplicate content see
what kind of keywords people are typing
in to find your site so it's pretty it's
definitely a important thing to do so
I'm just going to click on Google
Webmaster central here you can just
search for Google Webmaster Tools in
Google and when you sign in you're going
to be taken to a screen where you can
add a website and basically just put in
the URL of the website and once you do
that it's going to ask you to verify the
site so here I've got a site in here
already I'm going to click verify now
there's two ways you can verify the site
one is through a meta tag and what it's
going to do is give you this little meta
tag code that has to go in the header
section the head section of your of your
page on your site and I'll show you what
that looks like they've got a little
example here I'll show you where it goes
and see this head section in the site
and then the other way is through a file
now if you if you know FTP and you know
how to do that then this is probably
this is the way I do it I usually will
just upload this file to the root
directory of my site then I'll go back
to webmaster central and verify it and
everything is good but if you don't have
FTP or you don't know what that is and
you can always do this meta tag version
so I'm going to do that I'm going to
copy this code and we're going to go
back to our WordPress site login to the
WordPress admin and then put that in the
head section okay so here I am at the
dashboard and WordPress I'm going to go
to the appearance section over on the
left and from here depending on the
theme you have selected here I've got
the expanded web small biz theme but any
of the themes that you have if you go to
the editor you can actually edit the
theme code directly what you're going to
want to do is find the header now all
themes are going to have this header you
know no matter what WordPress theme
you have this header section okay so
what I'm going to do is go ahead and
paste this code right after the head so
here's where that we're opening up the
head section of the document and then
this is why I'm pasting the code right
at the beginning I'm going to say update
file and then when I go back to Google
Webmaster central and I click verify
then it's going to go out there and find
and verify the site and here it is so
now it's telling me all these this
information about where links are coming
into my site what keywords people are
using to find it if there's any crawl
errors so I'll give you another video on
a tour of webmaster tools but you'll
find this is just a super powerful tool
to use to diagnose your site make sure
that it's you know looking great to
Google
all right thanks if you are watching
this video on YouTube I'd really
appreciate it if you'd rate it and leave
me some comments below I'd love to hear
from you and look forward to seeing you
next time